Note: For hyperlinked html and pdf versions of this document see
  directory "doc".


Welcome to PRIMME's documentation!
**********************************

Table Of Contents:

* PRIMME: PReconditioned Iterative MultiMethod Eigensolver

  * Changelog

  * Citing this code

  * License Information

  * Contact Information

  * Directory Structure

  * Making and Linking

    * Considerations using an IDE

  * Tested Systems

* C Library Interface

  * Running

  * Parameters Guide

  * Interface Description

    * dprimme

    * zprimme

    * primme_initialize

    * primme_set_method

    * primme_display_params

    * primme_Free

* FORTRAN Library Interface

  * primme_initialize_f77

  * primme_set_method_f77

  * primme_Free_f77

  * dprimme_f77

  * zprimme_f77

  * primmetop_set_member_f77

  * primmetop_get_member_f77

  * primmetop_get_prec_shift_f77

  * primme_set_member_f77

  * primme_get_member_f77

  * primme_get_prec_shift_f77

* Appendix

  * primme_params

  * Error Codes

  * Preset Methods

PRIMME: PReconditioned Iterative MultiMethod Eigensolver
********************************************************

PRIMME, pronounced as *prime*, finds a number of eigenvalues and their
corresponding eigenvectors of a real symmetric, or complex hermitian
matrix A. Largest, smallest and interior eigenvalues are supported.
Preconditioning can be used to accelerate convergence. PRIMME is
written in C99, but complete interfaces are provided for Fortran 77
and MATLAB.


Changelog
=========

Changes in PRIMME 1.2.2 (released on October 13, 2015):

* Fixed wrong symbols in "libdprimme.a" and "libzprimme.a".

* "primme_set_method()" sets "JDQMR" instead of "JDQMR_ETol" for
  preset methods "DEFAULT_MIN_TIME" and "DYNAMIC" when seeking
  interior values.

* Fixed compilation of driver with a PETSc installation without
  HYPRE.

* Included the content of the environment variable "INCLUDE" for
  compiling the driver.

Changes in PRIMME 1.2.1 (released on September 7, 2015):

* Added MATLAB interface to full PRIMME functionality.

* Support for BLAS/LAPACK with 64bits integers
  ("-DPRIMME_BLASINT_SIZE=64").

* Simplified configuration of Make_flags and Make_links (removed
  "TOP" variable and replaced defines "NUM_SUM" and "NUM_IBM" by
  "F77UNDERSCORE").

* Replaced directories "DTEST" and "ZTEST" by "TEST", that has:

  * "driver.c": read matrices in MatrixMarket format and PETSc
    binary and call PRIMME with the parameters specified in a file;
    support complex arithmetic and MPI and can use PETSc
    preconditioners.

  * "ex*.c" and "ex*.f": small, didactic examples of usage in C and
    Fortran and in parallel (with PETSc).

* Fixed a few minor bugs and improved documentation (especially the
  F77 interface).

* Using Sphinx to manage documentation.

Changes in PRIMME 1.2 (released on December 21, 2014):

* A Fortran compiler is no longer required for building the PRIMME
  library. Fortran programs can still be linked to PRIMME's F77
  interface.

* Fixed some uncommon issues with the F77 interface.

* PRIMME can be called now multiple times from the same program.

* Performance improvements in the QMR inner solver, especially for
  complex arithmetic.

* Fixed a couple of bugs with the locking functionality.

  * In certain extreme cases where all eigenvalues of a matrix were
    needed.

  * The order of selecting interior eigenvalues.

  The above fixes have improved robustness and performance.

* PRIMME now assigns unique random seeds per parallel process for up
  to 4096^3  (140 trillion) processes.

* For the "DYNAMIC" method, fixed issues with initialization and
  synchronization decisions across multiple processes.

* Fixed uncommon library interface bugs, coordinated better setting
  the method and the user setting of parameters, and improved the
  interface in the sample programs and makefiles.

* Other performance and documentation improvements.


Citing this code
================

Please cite:

[r1] A. Stathopoulos and J. R. McCombs PRIMME: *PReconditioned
     Iterative MultiMethod Eigensolver: Methods and software
     description*, ACM Transaction on Mathematical Software Vol. 37,
     No. 2, (2010), 21:1-21:30.

More information on the algorithms and research that led to this
software can be found in the rest of the papers. The work has been
supported by a number of grants from the National Science Foundation.

[r2] A. Stathopoulos, *Nearly optimal preconditioned methods for
     hermitian eigenproblems under limited memory. Part I: Seeking one
     eigenvalue*, SIAM J. Sci. Comput., Vol. 29, No. 2, (2007), 481--
     514.

[r3] A. Stathopoulos and J. R. McCombs, *Nearly optimal
     preconditioned methods for hermitian eigenproblems under limited
     memory. Part II: Seeking many eigenvalues*, SIAM J. Sci. Comput.,
     Vol. 29, No. 5, (2007), 2162-2188.

[r4] J. R. McCombs and A. Stathopoulos, *Iterative Validation of
     Eigensolvers: A Scheme for Improving the Reliability of Hermitian
     Eigenvalue Solvers*, SIAM J. Sci. Comput., Vol. 28, No. 6,
     (2006), 2337-2358.

[r5] A. Stathopoulos, *Locking issues for finding a large number
     of eigenvectors of hermitian matrices*, Tech Report: WM-
     CS-2005-03, July, 2005.


License Information
===================

PRIMME is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

PRIMME is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public
License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA


Contact Information
===================

For reporting bugs or questions about functionality contact Andreas
Stathopoulos by email, *andreas* at *cs.wm.edu*. See further
information in the webpage http://www.cs.wm.edu/~andreas/software .


Directory Structure
===================

The next directories and files should be available:

* "COPYING.txt", LGPL License;

* "Make_flags",  flags to be used by makefiles to compile library
  and tests;

* "Link_flags",  flags needed in making and linking the test
  programs;

* "PRIMMESRC/",  directory with source code in the following
  subdirectories:

     * "COMMONSRC/", interface and common functions used by all
       precision versions;

     * "DSRC/",      the source code for the double precision
       "dprimme()";

     * "ZSRC/",      the source code for the double complex
       precision "zprimme()";

* "MEX/",          MATLAB interface for PRIMME;

* "TEST/",         sample test programs in C and F77, both
  sequential and parallel;

* "libprimme.a",   the PRIMME static library (to be made);

* "libprimme.so",  the PRIMME shared library (to be made);

* "makefile"       main make file;

* "readme.txt"     text version of the documentation;

* "doc/"           directory with the HTML and PDF versions of the
  documentation.


Making and Linking
==================

"Make_flags" has the flags and compilers used to make "libprimme.a":

* *CC*, compiler program such as "gcc", "clang" or "icc".

* *CFLAGS*, compiler options such as "-g" or "-O3". Also include
  some of the following options if required for the BLAS and LAPACK
  libraries to be linked:

  * "-DF77UNDERSCORE", if Fortran appends an underscore to function
    names (usually they does).

  * "-DPRIMME_BLASINT_SIZE=64", if the library integers are 64-bit
    integer ("kind=8") type (usually they are not).

Note: When "-DPRIMME_BLASINT_SIZE=64" is set the code uses the type
  "int64_t" supported by the C99 standard. In case the compiler
  doesn't honor the standard, replace the next lines in
  "PRIMMESRC/COMMONSRC/common_numerical.h":

     #if !defined(PRIMME_BLASINT_SIZE)
     #  define PRIMME_BLASINT int
     #else
     #  include <stdint.h>
     #  define GENERIC_INT(N) int ## N ## _t
     #  define XGENERIC_INT(N) GENERIC_INT(N)
     #  define PRIMME_BLASINT XGENERIC_INT(PRIMME_BLASINT_SIZE)
     #endif

  by the next macro definition with the proper type for an "int" of 64
  bits:

     #define PRIMME_BLASINT __int64

After customizing "Make_flags", type this to generate "libprimme.a":

   make lib

Making can be also done at the command line:

   make lib CC=clang CFLAGS='-O3'

"Link_flags" has the flags for linking with external libraries and
making the executables located in "TEST":

* *LDFLAGS*, linker flags such as "-framework Accelerate".

* *LIBS*, flags to link with libraries (BLAS and LAPACK are
  required), such as "-lprimme -llapack -lblas -lgfortran -lm".

After that, type this to compile and execute a simple test:

   $ make test
   ...
   Test passed!
   ...
   Test passed!

If it worked, try with other examples in "TEST" (see "README" in
"TEST" for more information about how to compile the driver and the
examples).

In case of linking problems check flags in *LDFLAGS* and *LIBS* and
consider to add/remove "-DF77UNDERSCORE" from *CFLAGS*. If the
execution fails consider to add/remove "-DPRIMME_BLASINT_SIZE=64" from
*CFLAGS*.

Full description of actions that *make* can take:

* *make lib*, builds "libprimme.a"; alternatively:

* *make libd*, if only "dprimme()" is of interest, build
  "libdprimme.a":

* *make libz*, if only "zprimme()" is of interest, build
  "libzprimme.a";

* *make solib*, builds "libprimme.so"; alternatively:

* *make solibd*, if only "dprimme()" is of interest, build
  "libdprimme.so":

* *make solibz*, if only "zprimme()" is of interest, build
  "libzprimme.so";

* *make test*, build and execute a simple example;

* *make clean*, removes all "*.o", "a.out", and core files from all
  directories.


Considerations using an IDE
---------------------------

PRIMME can be built in other environments such as Anjuta, Eclipse,
KDevelop, Qt Creator, Visual Studio and XCode. To build the PRIMME
library do the following:

1. Create a new project and include the source files under the
   directory "PRIMMESRC".

2. Add the directory "PRIMMESRC/COMMONSRC" as an include directory.

To build an example code using PRIMME make sure:

* to add a reference for PRIMME, BLAS and LAPACK libraries;

* to add the directory "PRIMMESRC/COMMONSRC" as an include
  directory.


Tested Systems
==============

PRIMME is primary developed with GNU gcc, g++ and gfortran (versions
4.8 and later). Many users have reported builds on several other
platforms/compilers:

* SUSE 13.1 & 13.2

* CentOS 6.6

* Ubuntu 14.04

* MacOS X 10.9 & 10.10

* Cygwin & MinGW

* Cray XC30

* SunOS 5.9, quad processor Sun-Fire-280R, and several other
  UltraSparcs

* AIX 5.2 IBM SP POWER 3+, 16-way SMP, 375 MHz nodes (seaborg at
  nersc.gov)

C Library Interface
*******************

The PRIMME interface is composed of the following functions. To solve
real symmetric and Hermitian standard eigenproblems call respectively:

   int dprimme(double *evals, double *evecs, double *resNorms,
               primme_params *primme);

   int zprimme(double *evals, Complex_Z *evecs, double *resNorms,
               primme_params *primme);

Other useful functions:

   void primme_initialize(primme_params *primme);
   int primme_set_method(primme_preset_method method,
                                        primme_params *params);
   void primme_display_params(primme_params primme);
   void primme_Free(primme_params primme);

PRIMME stores its data on the structure "primme_params". See
Parameters Guide for an introduction about its fields.


Running
=======

To use PRIMME, follow this basic steps.

1. Include:

      #include "primme.h"   /* header file is required to run primme */

2. Initialize a PRIMME parameters structure for default settings:

      primme_params primme;

      primme_initialize(&primme);

3. Set problem parameters (see also Parameters Guide), and,
   optionally, set one of the "preset methods":

      primme.matrixMatvec = LaplacianMatrixMatvec; /* MV product */
      primme.n = 100;                   /* set problem dimension */
      primme.numEvals = 10;       /* Number of wanted eigenpairs */
      ret = primme_set_method(method, &primme);
      ...

4. Then to solve a real symmetric standard eigenproblems call:

      ret = dprimme(evals, evecs, resNorms, &primme);

   To solve Hermitian standard eigenproblems call:

      ret = zprimme(evals, evecs, resNorms, &primme);

   The call arguments are:

   * *evals*, array to return the found eigenvalues;

   * *evecs*, array to return the found eigenvectors;

   * *resNorms*, array to return the residual norms of the found
     eigenpairs; and

   * *ret*, returned error code.

5. Before exiting, free the work arrays in PRIMME:

      primme_Free(&primme);


Parameters Guide
================

PRIMME stores the data on the structure "primme_params", which has the
next fields:

   /* Basic */
   int n;                                      // matrix dimension
   void (*matrixMatvec)(...);             // matrix-vector product
   int numEvals;                    // how many eigenpairs to find
   primme_target target;              // which eigenvalues to find
   int numTargetShifts;       // for targeting interior eigenpairs
   double *targetShifts;
   double eps;            // tolerance of the converged eigenpairs

   /* For parallel programs */
   int numProcs;
   int procID;
   int nLocal;
   void (*globalSumDouble)(...);

   /* Accelerate the convergence */
   void (*applyPreconditioner)(...);     // precond-vector product
   int initSize;       // initial vectors as approximate solutions
   int maxBasisSize;
   int minRestartSize;
   int maxBlockSize;

   /* User data */
   void *commInfo;
   void *matrix;
   void *preconditioner;

   /* Advanced options */
   int numOrthoConst; // orthogonal constrains to the eigenvectors
   int dynamicMethodSwitch;
   int locking;
   int maxMatvecs;
   int maxOuterIterations;
   int intWorkSize;
   long int realWorkSize;
   int iseed[4];
   int *intWork;
   void *realWork;
   double aNorm;
   int printLevel;
   FILE *outputFile;
   double *ShiftsForPreconditioner;
   struct restarting_params restartingParams;
   struct correction_params correctionParams;
   struct primme_stats stats;
   struct stackTraceNode *stackTrace

PRIMME requires the user to set at least the dimension of the matrix
("n") and the matrix-vector product ("matrixMatvec"), as they define
the problem to be solved. For parallel programs, "nLocal", "procID"
and "globalSumDouble" are also required.

In addition, most users would want to specify how many eigenpairs to
find, and provide a preconditioner (if available).

It is useful to have set all these before calling
"primme_set_method()". Also, if users have a preference on
"maxBasisSize", "maxBlockSize", etc, they should also provide them
into "primme_params" prior to the "primme_set_method()" call. This
helps "primme_set_method()" make the right choice on other parameters.
It is sometimes useful to check the actual parameters that PRIMME is
going to use (before calling it) or used (on return) by printing them
with "primme_display_params()".


Interface Description
=====================

The next enumerations and functions are declared in "primme.h".


dprimme
-------

int dprimme(double *evals, double *evecs, double *resNorms, primme_params *primme)

   Solve a real symmetric standard eigenproblem.

   Parameters:
      * **evals** -- array at least of size "numEvals" to store the
        computed eigenvalues; all processes in a parallel run return
        this local array with the same values.

      * **resNorms** -- array at least of size "numEvals" to store
        the residual norms of the computed eigenpairs; all processes
        in parallel run return this local array with the same values.

      * **evecs** -- array at least of size "nLocal" times
        "numEvals" to store columnwise the (local part of the)
        computed eigenvectors.

      * **primme** -- parameters structure.

   Returns:
      error indicator; see Error Codes.


zprimme
-------

int zprimme(double *evals, Complex_Z *evecs, double *resNorms, primme_params *primme)

   Solve a Hermitian standard eigenproblem; see function "dprimme()".

   Note: PRIMME uses a structure called "Complex_Z" to define
     complex numbers. "Complex_Z" is defined in
     "PRIMMESRC/COMMONSRC/Complexz.h". In future versions of PRIMME,
     "Complex_Z" will be replaced by "complex double" from the C99
     standard. Because the two types are binary compatible, we
     strongly recommend that calling programs use the C99 type to
     maintain future compatibility. See examples in "TEST" such as
     "ex_zseq.c" and "ex_zseqf77.c".


primme_initialize
-----------------

void primme_initialize(primme_params *primme)

   Set PRIMME parameters structure to the default values.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** -- parameters structure.


primme_set_method
-----------------

int primme_set_method(primme_preset_method method, primme_params *primme)

   Set PRIMME parameters to one of the preset configurations.

   Parameters:
      * **method** --

        preset configuration; one of

           "DYNAMIC"
           "DEFAULT_MIN_TIME"
           "DEFAULT_MIN_MATVECS"
           "Arnoldi"
           "GD"
           "GD_plusK"
           "GD_Olsen_plusK"
           "JD_Olsen_plusK"
           "RQI"
           "JDQR"
           "JDQMR"
           "JDQMR_ETol"
           "SUBSPACE_ITERATION"
           "LOBPCG_OrthoBasis"
           "LOBPCG_OrthoBasis_Window"

      * **primme** -- parameters structure.

   See also Preset Methods.


primme_display_params
---------------------

void primme_display_params(primme_params primme)

   Display all printable settings of "primme" into the file descriptor
   "outputFile".

   Parameters:
      * **primme** -- parameters structure.


primme_Free
-----------

void primme_Free(primme_params *primme)

   Free memory allocated by PRIMME.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** -- parameters structure.

FORTRAN Library Interface
*************************

The next enumerations and functions are declared in "primme_f77.h".

ptr

   Fortran datatype with the same size as a pointer. Use "integer*4"
   when compiling in 32 bits and "integer*8" in 64 bits.


primme_initialize_f77
=====================

primme_initialize_f77(primme)

   Set PRIMME parameters structure to the default values.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (output) parameters structure.


primme_set_method_f77
=====================

primme_set_method_f77(method, primme, ierr)

   Set PRIMME parameters to one of the preset configurations.

   Parameters:
      * **method** (*integer*) --

        (input) preset configuration. One of:

           "PRIMMEF77_DYNAMIC"
           "PRIMMEF77_DEFAULT_MIN_TIME"
           "PRIMMEF77_DEFAULT_MIN_MATVECS"
           "PRIMMEF77_Arnoldi"
           "PRIMMEF77_GD"
           "PRIMMEF77_GD_plusK"
           "PRIMMEF77_GD_Olsen_plusK"
           "PRIMMEF77_JD_Olsen_plusK"
           "PRIMMEF77_RQI"
           "PRIMMEF77_JDQR"
           "PRIMMEF77_JDQMR"
           "PRIMMEF77_JDQMR_ETol"
           "PRIMMEF77_SUBSPACE_ITERATION"
           "PRIMMEF77_LOBPCG_OrthoBasis"
           "PRIMMEF77_LOBPCG_OrthoBasis_Window"

        See "primme_preset_method".

      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **ierr** (*integer*) -- (output) if 0, successful; if
        negative, something went wrong.


primme_Free_f77
===============

primme_Free_f77(primme)

   Free memory allocated by PRIMME.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- parameters structure.


dprimme_f77
===========

dprimme_f77(evals, evecs, resNorms, primme, ierr)

   Solve a real symmetric standard eigenproblem.

   Parameters:
      * **evals(*)** (*double precision*) -- (output) array at least
        of size "numEvals" to store the computed eigenvalues; all
        parallel calls return the same value in this array.

      * **resNorms(*)** (*double precision*) -- (output) array at
        least of size "numEvals" to store the residual norms of the
        computed eigenpairs; all parallel calls return the same value
        in this array.

      * **evecs(*)** (*double precision*) -- (input/output) array at
        least of size "nLocal" times "numEvals" to store columnwise
        the (local part of the) computed eigenvectors.

      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- parameters structure.

      * **ierr** (*integer*) -- (output) error indicator; see Error
        Codes.


zprimme_f77
===========

zprimme_f77(evals, evecs, resNorms, primme, ierr)

   Solve a Hermitian standard eigenproblem. The arguments have the
   same meaning as in function "dprimme_f77()".

   Parameters:
      * **evals(*)** (*double precision*) -- (output)

      * **resNorms(*)** (*double precision*) -- (output)

      * **evecs(*)** (*complex double precision*) -- (input/output)

      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **ierr** (*integer*) -- (output) error indicator; see Error
        Codes.


primmetop_set_member_f77
========================

primmetop_set_member_f77(primme, label, value)

   Set a value in some field of the parameter structure.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **label** (*integer*) --

        field where to set value. One of:

           "PRIMMEF77_n"
           "PRIMMEF77_matrixMatvec"
           "PRIMMEF77_applyPreconditioner"
           "PRIMMEF77_numProcs"
           "PRIMMEF77_procID"
           "PRIMMEF77_commInfo"
           "PRIMMEF77_nLocal"
           "PRIMMEF77_globalSumDouble"
           "PRIMMEF77_numEvals"
           "PRIMMEF77_target"
           "PRIMMEF77_numTargetShifts"
           "PRIMMEF77_targetShifts"
           "PRIMMEF77_locking"
           "PRIMMEF77_initSize"
           "PRIMMEF77_numOrthoConst"
           "PRIMMEF77_maxBasisSize"
           "PRIMMEF77_minRestartSize"
           "PRIMMEF77_maxBlockSize"
           "PRIMMEF77_maxMatvecs"
           "PRIMMEF77_maxOuterIterations"
           "PRIMMEF77_intWorkSize"
           "PRIMMEF77_realWorkSize"
           "PRIMMEF77_iseed"
           "PRIMMEF77_intWork"
           "PRIMMEF77_realWork"
           "PRIMMEF77_aNorm"
           "PRIMMEF77_eps"
           "PRIMMEF77_printLevel"
           "PRIMMEF77_outputFile"
           "PRIMMEF77_matrix"
           "PRIMMEF77_preconditioner"
           "PRIMMEF77_restartingParams_scheme".
           "PRIMMEF77_restartingParams_maxPrevRetain"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_precondition"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_robustShifts"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_maxInnerIterations"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_projectors_LeftQ"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_projectors_LeftX"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_projectors_RightQ"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_projectors_RightX"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_projectors_SkewQ"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_projectors_SkewX"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_convTest"
           "PRIMMEF77_correctionParams_relTolBase"
           "PRIMMEF77_stats_numOuterIterations"
           "PRIMMEF77_stats_numRestarts"
           "PRIMMEF77_stats_numMatvecs"
           "PRIMMEF77_stats_numPreconds"
           "PRIMMEF77_stats_elapsedTime"
           "PRIMMEF77_dynamicMethodSwitch"
           "PRIMMEF77_massMatrixMatvec"

      * **value** -- (input) value to set.

   Note: **Don't use** this function inside PRIMME's callback
     functions, e.g., "matrixMatvec" or "applyPreconditioner", or in
     functions called by these functions. In those cases use
     "primme_set_member_f77()".


primmetop_get_member_f77
========================

primmetop_get_member_f77(primme, label, value)

   Get the value in some field of the parameter structure.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **label** (*integer*) -- (input) field where to get value.
        One of the detailed in function "primmetop_set_member_f77()".

      * **value** -- (output) value of the field.

   Note: **Don't use** this function inside PRIMME's callback
     functions, e.g., "matrixMatvec" or "applyPreconditioner", or in
     functions called by these functions. In those cases use
     "primme_get_member_f77()".

   Note: When "label" is one of "PRIMMEF77_matrixMatvec",
     "PRIMMEF77_applyPreconditioner", "PRIMMEF77_commInfo",
     "PRIMMEF77_intWork", "PRIMMEF77_realWork", "PRIMMEF77_matrix" and
     "PRIMMEF77_preconditioner", the returned "value" is a C pointer
     ("void*"). Use Fortran pointer or other extensions to deal with
     it. For instance:

        use iso_c_binding
        MPI_Comm comm

        comm = MPI_COMM_WORLD
        call primme_set_member_f77(primme, PRIMMEF77_commInfo, comm)
        ...
        subroutine par_GlobalSumDouble(x,y,k,primme)
        use iso_c_binding
        implicit none
        ...
        MPI_Comm, pointer :: comm
        type(c_ptr) :: pcomm

        call primme_get_member_f77(primme, PRIMMEF77_commInfo, pcomm)
        call c_f_pointer(pcomm, comm)
        call MPI_Allreduce(x,y,k,MPI_DOUBLE,MPI_SUM,comm,ierr)

     Most users would not need to retrieve these pointers in their
     programs.


primmetop_get_prec_shift_f77
============================

primmetop_get_prec_shift_f77(primme, index, value)

   Get the value in some position of the array
   "ShiftsForPreconditioner".

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **index** (*integer*) -- (input) position of the array; the
        first position is 1.

      * **value** -- (output) value of the array at that position.


primme_set_member_f77
=====================

primme_set_member_f77(primme, label, value)

   Set a value in some field of the parameter structure.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **label** (*integer*) -- field where to set value. One of
        the vales defined in "primmetop_set_member_f77()".

      * **value** -- (input) value to set.

   Note: Use this function exclusively inside PRIMME's callback
     functions, e.g., "matrixMatvec" or "applyPreconditioner", or in
     functions called by these functions. Otherwise, e.g., from the
     main program, use the function "primmetop_set_member_f77()".


primme_get_member_f77
=====================

primme_get_member_f77(primme, label, value)

   Get the value in some field of the parameter structure.

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **label** (*integer*) -- (input) field where to get value.
        One of the detailed in function "primmetop_set_member_f77()".

      * **value** -- (output) value of the field.

   Note: Use this function exclusively inside PRIMME's callback
     functions, e.g., "matrixMatvec" or "applyPreconditioner", or in
     functions called by these functions. Otherwise, e.g., from the
     main program, use the function "primmetop_get_member_f77()".

   Note: When "label" is one of "PRIMMEF77_matrixMatvec",
     "PRIMMEF77_applyPreconditioner", "PRIMMEF77_commInfo",
     "PRIMMEF77_intWork", "PRIMMEF77_realWork", "PRIMMEF77_matrix" and
     "PRIMMEF77_preconditioner", the returned "value" is a C pointer
     ("void*"). Use Fortran pointer or other extensions to deal with
     it. For instance:

        use iso_c_binding
        MPI_Comm comm

        comm = MPI_COMM_WORLD
        call primme_set_member_f77(primme, PRIMMEF77_commInfo, comm)
        ...
        subroutine par_GlobalSumDouble(x,y,k,primme)
        use iso_c_binding
        implicit none
        ...
        MPI_Comm, pointer :: comm
        type(c_ptr) :: pcomm

        call primme_get_member_f77(primme, PRIMMEF77_commInfo, pcomm)
        call c_f_pointer(pcomm, comm)
        call MPI_Allreduce(x,y,k,MPI_DOUBLE,MPI_SUM,comm,ierr)

     Most users would not need to retrieve these pointers in their
     programs.


primme_get_prec_shift_f77
=========================

primme_get_prec_shift_f77(primme, index, value)

   Get the value in some position of the array
   "ShiftsForPreconditioner".

   Parameters:
      * **primme** (*ptr*) -- (input) parameters structure.

      * **index** (*integer*) -- (input) position of the array; the
        first position is 1.

      * **value** -- (output) value of the array at that position.

   Note: Use this function exclusively inside the function
     "matrixMatvec", "massMatrixMatvec", or "applyPreconditioner".
     Otherwise use the function "primmetop_get_prec_shift_f77()".

Appendix
********


primme_params
=============

primme_params

   Structure to set the problem matrices and eigensolver options.

   int n

      Dimension of the matrix.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   void (*matrixMatvec)(void *x, void *y, int *blockSize, primme_params *primme)

      Block matrix-multivector multiplication, y = A x in solving A x
      = \lambda x or A x = \lambda B x.

      Parameters:
         * **x** -- one dimensional array containing the "blockSize"
           vectors packed one after the other (i.e., the leading
           dimension is the vector size), each of size "nLocal". The
           real type is "double*" and "Complex_Z*" when called from
           "dprimme()" and "zprimme()" respectively.

         * **y** -- one dimensional array containing the "blockSize"
           vectors packed one after the other (i.e., the leading
           dimension is the vector size), each of size "nLocal". The
           real type is "double*" and "Complex_Z*" when called from
           "dprimme()" and "zprimme()" respectively.

         * **blockSize** -- number of vectors in x and y.

         * **primme** -- parameters structure.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      Note: Argument "blockSize" is passed by reference to make
        easier the interface to other languages (like Fortran).

   void (*applyPreconditioner)(void *x, void *y, int *blockSize, struct primme_params *primme)

      Block preconditioner-multivector application, y = M^{-1}x where
      M is usually an approximation of A - \sigma I or A - \sigma B
      for finding eigenvalues close to \sigma. The function follows
      the convention of "matrixMatvec".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   void (*massMatrixMatvec)(void *x, void *y, int *blockSize, struct primme_params *primme)

      Block matrix-multivector multiplication, y = B x in solving A x
      = \lambda B x. The function follows the convention of
      "matrixMatvec".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      Warning: Generalized eigenproblems not implemented in current
        version. This member is included for future compatibility.

   int numProcs

      Number of processes calling "dprimme()" or "zprimme()" in
      parallel.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 1;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int procID

      The identity of the local process within a parallel execution
      calling "dprimme()" or "zprimme()". Only the process with id 0
      prints information.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            "dprimme()" sets this field to 0 if "numProcs" is 1;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int nLocal

      Number of local rows on this process.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            "dprimme()" sets this field to to "n" if "numProcs" is 1;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   void *commInfo

      A pointer to whatever parallel environment structures needed.
      For example, with MPI, it could be a pointer to the MPI
      communicator. PRIMME does not use this. It is available for
      possible use in user functions defined in "matrixMatvec",
      "applyPreconditioner", "massMatrixMatvec" and "globalSumDouble".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;

   void (*globalSumDouble)(double *sendBuf, double *recvBuf, int *count, primme_params *primme)

      Global sum reduction function. No need to set for sequential
      programs.

      Parameters:
         * **sendBuf** -- array of size "count" with the local input
           values.

         * **recvBuf** -- array of size "count" with the global
           output values so that the i-th element of recvBuf is the
           sum over all processes of the i-th element of "sendBuf".

         * **count** -- array size of "sendBuf" and "recvBuf".

         * **primme** -- parameters structure.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to an internal function;
            "dprimme()" sets this field to an internal function if "numProcs" is 1 and "globalSumDouble" is NULL;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      When MPI is used this can be a simply wrapper to
      MPI_Allreduce().

         void par_GlobalSumDouble(void *sendBuf, void *recvBuf, int *count,
                                  primme_params *primme) {
            MPI_Comm communicator = *(MPI_Comm *) primme->commInfo;
            MPI_Allreduce(sendBuf, recvBuf, *count, MPI_DOUBLE, MPI_SUM,
                          communicator);
         }

      Note: Argument "count" is passed by reference to make easier
        the interface to other languages (like Fortran).

      Note: The arguments "sendBuf" and "recvBuf" are always double
        arrays and "count" is always the number of double elements in
        both arrays, even for "zprimme()".

   int numEvals

      Number of eigenvalues wanted.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 1;
            this field is read by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods) and "dprimme()".

   primme_target target

      Which eigenpairs to find:

      "primme_smallest"
         Smallest algebraic eigenvalues; "targetShifts" is ignored.

      "primme_largest"
         Largest algebraic eigenvalues; "targetShifts" is ignored.

      "primme_closest_geq"
         Closest to, but greater or equal than the shifts in
         "targetShifts".

      "primme_closest_leq"
         Closest to, but less or equal than the shifts in
         "targetShifts".

      "primme_closest_abs"
         Closest in absolute value to than the shifts in
         "targetShifts".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to "primme_smallest";
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int numTargetShifts

      Size of the array "targetShifts". Used only when "target" is
      "primme_closest_geq", "primme_closest_leq" or
      "primme_closest_abs". The default values is 0.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   double *targetShifts

      Array of shifts, at least of size "numTargetShifts". Used only
      when "target" is "primme_closest_geq", "primme_closest_leq" or
      "primme_closest_abs".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      The i-th shift (or the last one, if it is not given) is taken
      into account in finding the i-th eigenvalue.

      Note: Considerations for interior problems:

        * PRIMME will try to compute the eigenvalues in the order
          given in the "targetShifts". However, for code efficiency
          and robustness, the shifts should be ordered. Order them in
          ascending (descending) order for shifts closer to the lower
          (higher) end of the spectrum.

        * If some shift is close to the lower (higher) end of the
          spectrum, use either "primme_closest_geq"
          ("primme_closest_leq") or "primme_closest_abs".

        * "primme_closest_leq" and "primme_closest_geq" are more
          efficient than "primme_closest_abs".

        * For interior eigenvalues larger "maxBasisSize" is usually
          more robust.

   int printLevel

      The level of message reporting from the code. One of:

      * 0: silent.

      * 1: print some error messages when these occur.

      * 2: as 1, and info about targeted eigenpairs when they are
        marked as converged:

           #Converged $1 eval[ $2 ]= $3 norm $4 Mvecs $5 Time $7

        or locked:

           #Lock epair[ $1 ]= $3 norm $4 Mvecs $5 Time $7

      * 3: as 2, and info about targeted eigenpairs every outer
        iteration:

           OUT $6 conv $1 blk $8 MV $5 Sec $7 EV $3 |r| $4

        Also, if it is used the dynamic method, show JDQMR/GDk
        performance ratio and the current method in use.

      * 4: as 3, and info about targeted eigenpairs every inner
        iteration:

           INN MV $5 Sec $7 Eval $3 Lin|r| $9 EV|r| $4

      * 5: as 4, and verbose info about certain choices of the
        algorithm.

      Output key:

         $1: Number of converged pairs up to now.
         $2: The index of the pair currently converged.
         $3: The eigenvalue.
         $4: Its residual norm.
         $5: The current number of matrix-vector products.
         $6: The current number of outer iterations.
         $7: The current elapsed time.
         $8: Index within the block of the targeted pair .
         $9: QMR norm of the linear system residual.

      In parallel programs, output is produced in call with "procID" 0
      when "printLevel" is from 0 to 4. If "printLevel" is 5 output
      can be produced in any of the parallel calls.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 1;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   Note: Convergence history for plotting may be produced simply by:

        grep OUT outpufile | awk '{print $8" "$14}' > out
        grep INN outpufile | awk '{print $3" "$11}' > inn

     Then in Matlab:

        plot(out(:,1),out(:,2),'bo');hold; plot(inn(:,1),inn(:,2),'r');

     Or in gnuplot:

        plot 'out' w lp, 'inn' w lp

   double aNorm

      An estimate of the norm of A, which is used in the convergence
      criterion (see "eps").

      If "aNorm" is less than or equal to 0, the code uses the largest
      absolute Ritz value seen. On return, "aNorm" is then replaced
      with that value.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0.0;
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   double eps

      An eigenpairs is marked as converged when the 2-norm of the
      residual is less than "eps" * "aNorm". The residual vector is A
      x - \lambda x or A x - \lambda B x.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 10^{-12};
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   FILE *outputFile

      Opened file to write down the output.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to the standard output;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int dynamicMethodSwitch

      If this value is 1, it alternates dynamically between
      "DEFAULT_MIN_TIME" and "DEFAULT_MIN_MATVECS", trying to identify
      the fastest method.

      On exit, it holds a recommended method for future runs on this
      problem:

            -1: use "DEFAULT_MIN_MATVECS" next time.
            -2: use "DEFAULT_MIN_TIME" next time.
            -3: close call, use "DYNAMIC" next time again.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      Note: Even for expert users we do not recommend setting
        "dynamicMethodSwitch" directly, but through
        "primme_set_method()".

      Note: The code obtains timings by the "gettimeofday" Unix
        utility. If a cheaper, more accurate timer is available,
        modify the "PRIMMESRC/COMMONSRC/wtime.c"

   int locking

      If set to 1, hard locking will be used (locking converged
      eigenvectors out of the search basis). Otherwise the code will
      try to use soft locking (à la ARPACK), when large enough
      "minRestartSize" is available.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int initSize

      On input, the number of initial vector guesses provided in
      "evecs" argument in "dprimme()" or "zprimme()".

      On output, "initSize" holds the number of converged eigenpairs.
      Without "locking" all "numEvals" approximations are in "evecs"
      but only the "initSize" ones are converged.

      During execution, it holds the current number of converged
      eigenpairs. In addition, if locking is used, these are
      accessible in "evals" and "evecs".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   int numOrthoConst

      Number of vectors to be used as external orthogonalization
      constraints. These vectors are provided in the first
      "numOrthoConst" positions of the "evecs" argument in "dprimme()"
      or "zprimme()" and must be orthonormal.

      PRIMME finds new eigenvectors orthogonal to these constraints
      (equivalent to solving the problem with (I-YY^*)A(I-YY^*) and
      (I-YY^*)B(I-YY^*) matrices where Y are the given constraint
      vectors). This is a handy feature if some eigenvectors are
      already known, or for finding more eigenvalues after a call to
      "dprimme()" or "zprimme()", possibly with different parameters
      (see an example in "TEST/ex_zseq.c").

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int maxBasisSize

      The maximum basis size allowed in the main iteration. This has
      memory implications.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int minRestartSize

      Maximum Ritz vectors kept after restarting the basis.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int maxBlockSize

      The maximum block size the code will try to use.

      The user should set this based on the architecture specifics of
      the target computer, as well as any a priori knowledge of
      multiplicities. The code does *not* require that "maxBlockSize"
      > 1 to find multiple eigenvalues. For some methods, keeping to 1
      yields the best overall performance.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 1;
            this field is read and written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      Note: Inner iterations of QMR are not performed in a block
        fashion. Every correction equation from a block is solved
        independently.

   int maxMatvecs

      Maximum number of matrix vector multiplications (approximately
      equal to the number of preconditioning operations) that the code
      is allowed to perform before it exits.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to "INT_MAX";
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int maxOuterIterations

      Maximum number of outer iterations that the code is allowed to
      perform before it exits.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to "INT_MAX";
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int intWorkSize

      If "dprimme()" or "zprimme()" is called with all arguments as
      NULL except for "primme_params" then PRIMME returns immediately
      with "intWorkSize" containing the size *in bytes* of the integer
      workspace that will be required by the parameters set in PRIMME.

      Otherwise if "intWorkSize" is not 0, it should be the size of
      the integer work array *in bytes* that the user provides in
      "intWork". If "intWorkSize" is 0, the code will allocate the
      required space, which can be freed later by calling
      "primme_Free()".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   long int realWorkSize

      If "dprimme()" or "zprimme()" is called with all arguments as
      NULL except for "primme_params" then PRIMME returns immediately
      with "realWorkSize" containing the size *in bytes* of the real
      workspace that will be required by the parameters set in PRIMME.

      Otherwise if "realWorkSize" is not 0, it should be the size of
      the real work array *in bytes* that the user provides in
      "realWork". If "realWorkSize" is 0, the code will allocate the
      required space, which can be freed later by calling
      "primme_Free()".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   int *intWork

      Integer work array.

      If NULL, the code will allocate its own workspace. If the
      provided space is not enough, the code will free it and allocate
      a new space.

      On exit, the first element shows if a locking problem has
      occurred. Using locking for large "numEvals" may, in some rare
      cases, cause some pairs to be practically converged, in the
      sense that their components are in the basis of "evecs". If this
      is the case, a Rayleigh Ritz on returned "evecs" would provide
      the accurate eigenvectors (see [r4]).

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   void *realWork

      Real work array.

      If NULL, the code will allocate its own workspace. If the
      provided space is not enough, the code will free it and allocate
      a new space.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   int iseed

      The "int iseed[4]" is an array with the seeds needed by the
      LAPACK dlarnv and zlarnv.

      The default value is an array with values -1, -1, -1 and -1. In
      that case, "iseed" is set based on the value of "procID" to
      avoid every parallel process generating the same sequence of
      pseudorandom numbers.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to "[-1, -1, -1, -1]";
            this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   void *matrix

      This field may be used to pass any required information in the
      matrix-vector product "matrixMatvec".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;

   void *preconditioner

      This field may be used to pass any required information in the
      preconditioner function "applyPreconditioner".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to NULL;

   double *ShiftsForPreconditioner

      Array of size "blockSize" provided during execution of
      "dprimme()" and "zprimme()" holding the shifts to be used (if
      needed) in the preconditioning operation.

      For example if the block size is 3, there will be an array of
      three shifts in "ShiftsForPreconditioner". Then the user can
      invert a shifted preconditioner for each of the block vectors
      (M-ShiftsForPreconditioner_i)^{-1} x_i. Classical Davidson
      (diagonal) preconditioning is an example of this.

         this field is read and written by "dprimme()".

   primme_restartscheme restartingParams.scheme

      Select a restarting strategy:

      * "primme_thick", Thick restarting. This is the most efficient
        and robust in the general case.

      * "primme_dtr", Dynamic thick restarting. Helpful without
        preconditioning but it is expensive to implement.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to "primme_thick";
            written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int restartingParams.maxPrevRetain

      Number of approximations from previous iteration to be retained
      after restart (this is the locally optimal restarting, see
      [r2]). The restart size is "minRestartSize" plus
      "maxPrevRetain".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int correctionParams.precondition

      Set to 1 to use preconditioning. Make sure "applyPreconditioner"
      is not NULL then!

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int correctionParams.robustShifts

      Set to 1 to use robust shifting. It tries to avoid stagnation
      and misconvergence by providing as shifts in
      "ShiftsForPreconditioner" the Ritz values displaced by an
      approximation of the eigenvalue error.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   int correctionParams.maxInnerIterations

      Control the maximum number of inner QMR iterations:

      * 0:  no inner iterations;

      * >0: perform at most that number of inner iterations per
        outer step;

      * <0: perform at most the rest of the remaining matrix-vector
        products up to reach "maxMatvecs".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            this field is read and written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      See also "convTest".

   double correctionParams.relTolBase

      Parameter used when "convTest" is
      "primme_decreasing_LTolerance".

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

   primme_convergencetest correctionParams.convTest

      Set how to stop the inner QMR method:

      * "primme_full_LTolerance": stop by iterations only;

      * "primme_decreasing_LTolerance", stop when
        \text{relTolBase}^{-\text{outIts}} where outIts is the number
        of outer iterations and retTolBase is set in "relTolBase";
        This is a legacy option from classical JDQR and we recommend
        **strongly** against its use.

      * "primme_adaptive", stop when the estimated eigenvalue
        residual has reached the required tolerance (based on Notay's
        JDCG).

      * "primme_adaptive_ETolerance", as "primme_adaptive" but also
        stopping when the estimated eigenvalue residual has reduced 10
        times.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to "primme_adaptive_ETolerance";
            written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      Note: Avoid to set "maxInnerIterations" to -1 and "convTest"
        to "primme_full_LTolerance".

      See also "maxInnerIterations".

   int correctionParams.projectors.LeftQ

   int correctionParams.projectors.LeftX

   int correctionParams.projectors.RightQ

   int correctionParams.projectors.RightX

   int correctionParams.projectors.SkewQ

   int correctionParams.projectors.SkewX

      Control the projectors involved in the computation of the
      correction appended to the basis every (outer) iteration.

      Consider the current selected Ritz value \Lambda and vectors X,
      the residual associated vectors R=AX-X\Lambda, the previous
      locked vectors Q, and the preconditioner M^{-1}.

      When "maxInnerIterations" is 0, the correction D appended to the
      basis in GD is:

      +----------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------+
      | RightX   | SkewX   | D                                                          |
      +==========+=========+============================================================+
      | 0        | 0       | M^{-1}R (Classic GD)                                       |
      +----------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------+
      | 1        | 0       | M^{-1}(R-Delta X) (cheap Olsen's Method)                   |
      +----------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------+
      | 1        | 1       | (I- M^{-1}X(X^*M^{-1}X)^{-1}X^*)M^{-1}R (Olsen's Method)   |
      +----------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------+
      | 0        | 1       | error                                                      |
      +----------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------+

      Where \Delta is a diagonal matrix that \Delta_{i,i} holds an
      estimation of the error of the approximate eigenvalue
      \Lambda_{i,i}.

      The values of "RightQ", "SkewQ", "LeftX" and "LeftQ" are
      ignored.

      When "maxInnerIterations" is not 0, the correction D in Jacobi-
      Davidson results from solving:

         P_Q^l P_X^l (A-\sigma I) P_X^r P_Q^r M^{-1} D' = -R, \ \ \  D
         = P_X^r P_Q^l M^{-1}D'.

      For "LeftQ":

            0: P_Q^l = I;
            1: P_Q^l = I - QQ^*.

      For "LeftX":

            0: P_X^l = I;
            1: P_X^l = I - XX^*.

      For "RightQ" and "SkewQ":

      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | RightQ   | SkewQ   | P_Q^r                           |
      +==========+=========+=================================+
      | 0        | 0       | I                               |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | 1        | 0       | I - QQ^*                        |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | 1        | 1       | I - KQ(Q^*KQ)^{-1}Q^*           |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | 0        | 1       | error                           |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+

      For "RightX" and "SkewX":

      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | RightX   | SkewX   | P_X^r                           |
      +==========+=========+=================================+
      | 0        | 0       | I                               |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | 1        | 0       | I - XX^*                        |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | 1        | 1       | I - KX(X^*KX)^{-1}X^*           |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+
      | 0        | 1       | error                           |
      +----------+---------+---------------------------------+

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets all of them to 0;
            this field is written by "primme_set_method()" (see Preset Methods);
            this field is read by "dprimme()".

      See [r3] for a study about different projector configurations in
      JD.

   int stats.numOuterIterations

      Hold the number of outer iterations. The value is available
      during execution and at the end.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "dprimme()".

   int stats.numRestarts

      Hold the number of restarts during execution and at the end.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "dprimme()".

   int stats.numMatvecs

      Hold how many vectors the operator in "matrixMatvec" has been
      applied on. The value is available during execution and at the
      end.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "dprimme()".

   int stats.numPreconds

      Hold how many vectors the operator in "applyPreconditioner" has
      been applied on. The value is available during execution and at
      the end.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "dprimme()".

   int stats.elapsedTime

      Hold the wall clock time spent by the call to "dprimme()" or
      "zprimme()". The value is available at the end of the execution.

      Input/output:

            "primme_initialize()" sets this field to 0;
            written by "dprimme()".


Error Codes
===========

The functions "dprimme()" and "zprimme()" return one of the next
values:

* 0: success.

* 1: reported only amount of required memory.

* -1: failed in allocating int or real workspace.

* -2: malloc failed in allocating a permutation integer array.

* -3: main_iter() encountered problem; the calling stack of the
  functions where the error occurred was printed in "stderr".

* -4: if argument "primme" is NULL.

* -5: if "n" <= 0 or "nLocal" <= 0.

* -6: if "numProcs" < 1.

* -7: if "matrixMatvec" is NULL.

* -8: if "applyPreconditioner" is NULL and "precondition" is not
  NULL.

* -9: if "globalSumDouble" is NULL.

* -10: if "numEvals" > "n".

* -11: if "numEvals" < 0.

* -12: if "eps" > 0 and "eps" < machine precision.

* -13: if "target" is not properly defined.

* -14: if "target" is one of "primme_closest_geq",
  "primme_closest_leq" or "primme_closest_abs" but "numTargetShifts"
  <= 0 (no shifts).

* -15: if "target" is one of "primme_closest_geq",
  "primme_closest_leq" or "primme_closest_abs" but "targetShifts" is
  NULL  (no shifts array).

* -16: if "numOrthoConst" < 0 or "numOrthoConst" >= "n". (no free
  dimensions left).

* -17: if "maxBasisSize" < 2.

* -18: if "minRestartSize" <= 0.

* -19: if "maxBlockSize" <= 0.

* -20: if "maxPrevRetain" < 0.

* -21: if "scheme" is not one of *primme_thick* or *primme_dtr*.

* -22: if "initSize" < 0.

* -23: if not "locking" and "initSize" > "maxBasisSize".

* -24: if "locking" and "initSize" > "numEvals".

* -25: if "maxPrevRetain" + "minRestartSize" >= "maxBasisSize".

* -26: if "minRestartSize" >= "n".

* -27: if "printLevel" < 0 or "printLevel" > 5.

* -28: if "convTest" is not one of "primme_full_LTolerance",
  "primme_decreasing_LTolerance", "primme_adaptive_ETolerance" or
  "primme_adaptive".

* -29: if "convTest" == "primme_decreasing_LTolerance" and
  "relTolBase" <= 1.

* -30: if "evals" is NULL, but not "evecs" and "resNorms".

* -31: if "evecs" is NULL, but not "evals" and "resNorms".

* -32: if "resNorms" is NULL, but not "evecs" and "evals".


Preset Methods
==============

primme_preset_method

   DEFAULT_MIN_TIME

      Set as "JDQMR_ETol" when "target" is either "primme_smallest" or
      "primme_largest", and as "JDQMR" otherwise. This method is
      usually the fastest if the cost of the matrix vector product is
      inexpensive.

   DEFAULT_MIN_MATVECS

      Currently set as "GD_Olsen_plusK"; this method usually performs
      fewer matrix vector products than other methods, so it's a good
      choice when this operation is expensive.

   DYNAMIC

      Switches to the best method dynamically; currently, between
      methods "DEFAULT_MIN_TIME" and "DEFAULT_MIN_MATVECS".

      With "DYNAMIC" "primme_set_method()" sets "dynamicMethodSwitch"
      = 1 and makes the same changes as for method "DEFAULT_MIN_TIME".

   Arnoldi

      Arnoldi implemented à la Generalized Davidson.

      With "Arnoldi" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking" = 0;

      * "maxPrevRetain" = 0;

      * "precondition" = 0;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 0.

   GD

      Generalized Davidson.

      With "GD" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking" = 0;

      * "maxPrevRetain" = 0;

      * "robustShifts" = 1;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 0;

      * "RightX" = 0;

      * "SkewX" = 0.

   GD_plusK

      GD with locally optimal restarting.

      With "GD_plusK" "primme_set_method()" sets "maxPrevRetain" = 2
      if "maxBlockSize" is 1 and "numEvals" > 1; otherwise it sets
      "maxPrevRetain" to "maxBlockSize". Also:

      * "locking" = 0;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 0;

      * "RightX" = 0;

      * "SkewX" = 0.

   GD_Olsen_plusK

      GD+k and the cheap Olsen's Method.

      With "GD_Olsen_plusK" "primme_set_method()" makes the same
      changes as for method "GD_plusK" and sets "RightX" = 1.

   JD_Olsen_plusK

      GD+k and Olsen's Method.

      With "JD_Olsen_plusK" "primme_set_method()" makes the same
      changes as for method "GD_plusK" and also sets "robustShifts" =
      1, "RightX" to 1, and "SkewX" to 1.

   RQI

      (Accelerated) Rayleigh Quotient Iteration.

      With "RQI" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking" = 1;

      * "maxPrevRetain" = 0;

      * "robustShifts"  = 1;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = -1;

      * "LeftQ"   = 1;

      * "LeftX"   = 1;

      * "RightQ"  = 0;

      * "RightX"  = 1;

      * "SkewQ"   = 0;

      * "SkewX"   = 0;

      * "convTest" = "primme_full_LTolerance".

      Note: If "numTargetShifts" > 0 and "targetShifts" are
        provided, the interior problem solved uses these shifts in the
        correction equation. Therefore RQI becomes INVIT (inverse
        iteration) in that case.

   JDQR

      Jacobi-Davidson with fixed number of inner steps.

      With "JDQR" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking"     = 1;

      * "maxPrevRetain"      = 1;

      * "robustShifts"       = 0;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 10 if it is 0;

      * "LeftQ"   = 0;

      * "LeftX"   = 1;

      * "RightQ"  = 1;

      * "RightX"  = 1;

      * "SkewQ"   = 1;

      * "SkewX"   = 1;

      * "relTolBase" = 1.5;

      * "convTest" = "primme_full_LTolerance".

   JDQMR

      Jacobi-Davidson with adaptive stopping criterion for inner Quasi
      Minimum Residual (QMR).

      With "JDQMR" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking" = 0;

      * "maxPrevRetain" = 1 if it is 0

      * "maxInnerIterations" = -1;

      * "LeftQ"   = "precondition";

      * "LeftX"   = 1;

      * "RightQ"  = 0;

      * "RightX"  = 0;

      * "SkewQ"   = 0;

      * "SkewX"   = 1;

      * "convTest"  = "primme_adaptive".

   JDQMR_ETol

      JDQMR but QMR stops after residual norm reduces by a 0.1 factor.

      With "JDQMR_ETol" "primme_set_method()" makes the same changes
      as for the method "JDQMR" and sets "convTest" =
      "primme_adaptive_ETolerance".

   SUBSPACE_ITERATION

      Subspace iteration.

      With "SUBSPACE_ITERATION" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking"    = 1;

      * "maxBasisSize" = "numEvals" *** 2;

      * "minRestartSize" = "numEvals";

      * "maxBlockSize" = "numEvals";

      * "scheme"  = "primme_thick";

      * "maxPrevRetain"      = 0;

      * "robustShifts"       = 0;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 0;

      * "RightX"  = 1;

      * "SkewX"   = 0.

   LOBPCG_OrthoBasis

      LOBPCG with orthogonal basis.

      With "LOBPCG_OrthoBasis" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking"    = 0;

      * "maxBasisSize" = "numEvals" *** 3;

      * "minRestartSize" = "numEvals";

      * "maxBlockSize" = "numEvals";

      * "scheme"  = "primme_thick";

      * "maxPrevRetain"      = "numEvals";

      * "robustShifts"       = 0;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 0;

      * "RightX"  = 1;

      * "SkewX"   = 0.

   LOBPCG_OrthoBasis_Window

      LOBPCG with sliding window of "maxBlockSize" < 3 *** "numEvals".

      With "LOBPCG_OrthoBasis_Window" "primme_set_method()" sets:

      * "locking"    = 0;

      * "maxBasisSize" = "maxBlockSize" *** 3;

      * "minRestartSize" = "maxBlockSize";

      * "maxBlockSize" = "numEvals";

      * "scheme"  = "primme_thick";

      * "maxPrevRetain"      = "maxBlockSize";

      * "robustShifts"       = 0;

      * "maxInnerIterations" = 0;

      * "RightX"  = 1;

      * "SkewX"   = 0.
